# Language Processing

Patterns within written text are not the same across all authors or languages. This allows linguists to study the language of origin
or potential authorship of texts where these characteristics are not directly known such as the Federalist Papers of the American Revolution. In this case study, we will examine the properties of individual books in a book collection from various authors and various languages. More specifically, we will look at book lengths, number of unique words, and how these attributes cluster by language of or authorship. Project Gutenberg is the oldest digital library of books. It aims to digitize and archive cultural works, and at present, contains over 50,000 books, all previously published and now available electronically. These books are in the public domain which means they can be downloaded and read for free. We have downloaded a collection of over 100 titles from Project Gutenberg for analysis as a sample library for this case study. The downloaded sample consist of several nested folders. At the top level, we have four languages: English, French, German, and Portuguese. For each language, we have from one to four authors each, 13 authors in total. For each author, we have from 1 to 16 books, 102 books in total. Some authors have appeared in several language categories because their books are available as translations in several languages. This data set is available in the Books folder of this repositories. At the end, some graphs are plotted for data analysis.
